AsyncApi documentation (#564)
eclipse-esmf/esmf-sdk: documentation/developer-guide/modules/tooling-guide/pages/samm-cli.adoc

                                       be generated (default: en)                                                            | `samm aspect AspectModel.ttl to openapi -l de`
                                   | _--separate-files, -sf_ : Create separate files for each schema                         |
                                   | _--custom-resolver_ : use an external resolver for the resolution of the model elements |
.6+| aspect <model> to asyncapi    | Generate https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0[AsyncAPI] specification for an Aspect Model| `samm aspect AspectModel.ttl to asyncapi`
                                   | _--output, -o_ : output file path (default: stdout)                                     |
                                   | _--channel-address, -ca_ : Use this param make possible provide channel address.

>                                        https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3[OpenAPI] specification                           | `samm aspect AspectModel.ttl to asyncapi -ca \123-456/789-012/namespace/1.0.0/Aspect`

Author: Yes, has to be different one

Thank you!

----
@prefix : <urn:samm:{example-ns}.myapplication:1.0.0#> . # <1>
@prefix samm: <{samm}> .

:Movement a samm:Aspect ; # <3>
   samm:name "Movement" ;
   samm:preferredName "MovementPrefferedName"@en ; # <2>
   samm:description "Aspect for movement information"@en . # <4>
----

<1> prefix used to build the full URN of `:Movement` Aspect
<2> the preferred name of the Aspect in language of user's choice
<3> the name of the Aspect
<4> the description of the Aspect

For the generated AsyncAPI specification, the following mapping would apply:

[source,JSON]
----
{
  "asyncapi" : "3.0.0",
  "info" : {
    "title" : "MovementPrefferedName MQTT API", // <2>
    "version" : "v2", // <1>
    "description" : "Aspect for movement information" // <3>
  }
}
----

<1> depending on parameters used when generating the specification, this is either the major version of the full Aspect URN (*2*.0.0), or it can be the full version (`v2.0.0`), if using `-sv` (semantic version) command line switch
<2> as `samm:preferredName` is used as the value for the `title` element of the specification (MQTT API defined automatically)
<3> as `samm:description` is an optional element

> The name of the Aspect is used to generate several important AsyncAPI artifacts, like the channel definitions for the API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the Aspect is used to generate parts of the AsyncAPI specification, such as the channel definitions for the API:
```

[source,JSON]
----
{
 "channels" : {
    "Movement" : { // <3>

>       "address" : "/movement/0.0.1/Movement", // <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "address" : "movement/0.0.1/Movement", // <3>
```

      "description" : "This channel for updating Movement Aspect.", // <3>
      "parameters" : {
        "namespace" : "movement",
        "version" : "0.0.1",
        "aspect-name" : "Movement" // <3>
      },

>       "massages" : {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "messages" : {}
```

    }
  }
}
----

==== Mapping of Aspect's operations

> AsyncAPI specification is generated using operations and events.
> This section describe only operations.
> If the Aspect also has a non-empty list of operations defined, like the one in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI specification is generated based on SAMM Operations and Events.
This section describes how specification parts are generated for Operations.
If the Aspect also has a non-empty list of Operations defined, such as the one in the following example:
```

[source,turtle]
----
:Movement a samm:Aspect ;
   samm:preferredName "movement"@en ;
   samm:description "Aspect for movement information"@en ;
   samm:properties ( ) ;
   samm:operations ( :GetSpeed ) ;
   samm:events ( ) .

> :GetSpeed a samm:Operation ;

Reviewer: Operation names should be lowercase

>    samm:preferredName "GetSpeedPrefName"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "Get speed"@en ;
```

>    samm:description "GetSpeed summary"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:description "Returns the current speed"@en ;
```

>    samm:input ( :GetSpeedInput ) ; <1>
>    samm:output :GetSpeedOutput . <2>

Reviewer: Missing comments, also Property names should be lowercase

```suggestion
   samm:input ( :getSpeedInput ) ; # <1>
   samm:output :getSpeedOutput . # <2>
```

> :GetSpeedOutput a samm:Property ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:getSpeedOutput a samm:Property ;
```

>    samm:preferredName "GetSpeedOutputPrefferedName"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "getSpeed output"@en ;
```

>    samm:description "GetSpeedOutput desc"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:description "Return value of the getSpeed operation"@en ;
```

   samm:characteristic :OutputCharacteristic .

:OutputCharacteristic a samm:Characteristic ;

>    samm:preferredName "OutputCharacteristicPrefferedName"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "Output"@en ;
```

>    samm:description "OutputCharacteristic desc"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:description "Describes the output of the getSpeed operation"@en ;
```

   samm:dataType :OutputEntity .

:OutputEntity a samm:Entity ;

>    samm:name "GetSpeedOutput" ;

Reviewer: Remove this line

>    samm:preferredName "GetSpeedOutputPrefferedName"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "Output entity"@en ;
```

>    samm:description "GetSpeedOutput desc"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:description "The structured response of getSpeed"@en ;
```

   samm:properties ( :OutputEntityMessage ) .

> :OutputEntityMessage a samm:Property ;

Reviewer: Property should be lowercase
```suggestion
:outputEntityMessage a samm:Property ;
```

>    samm:characteristic samm-c:Text . <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:characteristic samm-c:Text . # <3>
```

> :GetSpeedInput a samm:Property ;

Reviewer: Property should be lowercase
```suggestion
:getSpeedInput a samm:Property ;
```

>    samm:name "getSpeedInput" ;

Reviewer: Remove this line

>    samm:preferredName "getSpeedInputPrefferedName"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "getSpeed input"@en ;
```

>    samm:description "getSpeedInput desc"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:description "The input to the getSpeed operation"@en ;
```

>    samm:characteristic samm-c:Text . <4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:characteristic samm-c:Text . # <4>
```

----

operations will be generated in some places of AsyncAPI specification:
https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0#operationObject[operations] section,
channel
https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0#messagesObject[messages] section and
https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0#schemaObject[schemas] section:

> [source,JSON]

Reviewer: In the following AsyncAPI schema document, change identifiers according to the Aspect Model changes (Property and Operation names lowercase, updates to preferredNames and descriptions)

----
{

> "channels" : {

Reviewer: Indentation seems incorrect?
```suggestion
  "channels" : {
```

Author: Yes, incorrect, you are right

    "Movement" : {

>       "address" : "/movement/0.0.1/Movement",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "address" : "movement/0.0.1/Movement",
```

      "description" : "This channel for updating Movement Aspect.",
      "parameters" : {
        "namespace" : "movement",
        "version" : "0.0.1",
        "aspect-name" : "Movement"
      },

>       "massages" : {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "messages" : {
```

        "name" : "GetSpeedInput", // <1>
        "title" : "getSpeedInputPrefferedName",
        "summary" : "getSpeedInput desc",
        "content-type" : "application/json",
        "payload" : {
          "$ref" : "#/components/schemas/GetSpeedInput" // <1>
        }
      },
      "GetSpeedOutput" : { // <2> <4>
        "name" : "GetSpeedOutput", // <2>
        "title" : "GetSpeedOutputPrefferedName",
        "summary" : "GetSpeedOutput desc",
        "content-type" : "application/json",
        "payload" : {
          "$ref" : "#/components/schemas/GetSpeedOutput" // <2>
        }
      }
    },
    "schemas" : {
      "GetSpeedInput" : { // <1> <3>
        "type" : "string",
        "description" : "getSpeedInput desc"
      },
      "GetSpeedOutput" : { // <2> <3>
        "type" : "string",
        "description" : "GetSpeedOutput desc"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

<1> the names of the input
<2> the names of the output
<3> the characteristics are generated
<4> the meta information of input/output
<5> 'send' (for output) action: map to a publish operation in AsyncAPI, 'receive' (for input) action: map to a subscribe operation

==== Mapping of Aspect's events

> This section describe mapping between Aspect Events and AsyncAPI spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the mapping between SAMM Events and the AsyncAPI specification.
```

If the Aspect also has a non-empty list of events defined, like the one in the following example:

[source,turtle]
----
:Movement a samm:Aspect ;
   samm:preferredName "movement"@en ;
   samm:description "Aspect for movement information"@en ;
   samm:properties ( ) ;
   samm:operations ( ) ;
   samm:events ( :SpeedUpdateEvent ) .

:SpeedUpdateEvent a samm:Event ;

>    samm:preferredName "speedUpdate"@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "Speed Update"@en ;
```

   samm:description "This is event for update speed property"@en ;
   samm:parameters ( :updatedSpeed :propertyName ) .

:updatedSpeed a samm:Property ;

>    samm:preferredName "updatedSpeedPreferredName"@en ;
>    samm:description "Updated Property Desc."@en ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   samm:preferredName "updated speed"@en ;
   samm:description "the updated speed value"@en ;
```

   samm:see <http://example.com/> ;
   samm:see <http://example.com/me> ;

>    samm:exampleValue "1234567890" ;

Reviewer: Remove these lines

   samm:characteristic samm-c:Text .

> :propertyName a samm:Property ;

Reviewer: I think this is an anti-pattern. We should not model a Property that refers to other Properties by name. Please change this so that the Event updates a specific value instead, even if it is not as generic.

   samm:preferredName "propertyNamePreferredName"@en ;
   samm:description "PropertyName Desc"@en ;
   samm:see <http://example.com/> ;
   samm:see <http://example.com/me> ;

>    samm:exampleValue "1234567890" ;

Reviewer: Remove these lines
